# Definition

A range of wavelengths (or frequencies) in the electromagnetic spectrum
within which radiant energy is absorbed by a substance. See absorption
spectrum. When the absorbing substance is a polyatomic gas, an
absorption band actually is composed of a group of discrete absorption
lines which appear to overlap. Each line is associated with a particular
mode of vibration or rotation induced in a gas molecule by the incident
radiation. The absorption bands of oxygen and ozone are often referred
to in the literature of atmospheric physics. The important bands for
oxygen are: (a) the Hopfield bands, very strong, between about 670 and
1000 angstroms in the ultraviolet; (b) a diffuse system between 1019 and
1300 angstroms; (c) the Schumann-Runge continuum, very strong, between
1350 and 1760 angstroms; (d) the Schumann-Runge bands between 1760 and
1926 angstroms; (e) the Herzberg bands between 2400 and 2600 angstroms;
(f) the atmospheric bands between 5380 and 7710 angstroms in the visible
spectrum; and (g) a system in the infrared at about 1 micron. The
important bands for ozone are: (a) the Hartley bands between 2000 and
3000 angstroms in the ultraviolet, with a very intense maximum
absorption at 2550 angstroms; (b) the Huggins bands, weak absorption
between 3200 and 3600 angstroms; (c) the Chappius bands, a weak diffuse
system between 4500 and 6500 angstroms in the visible spectrum; and (d)
the infrared bands centered at 4.7, 9.6 and 14.1 microns, the latter
being the most intense.
