# Definition

Any one of a number of strata or layers of the earth's atmosphere. Also
called atmospheric layer, atmospheric region . Temperature distribution
is the most common criterion used for denoting the various shells. The
troposphere (the region of change) is the lowest 10 or 20 kilometers of
the atmosphere, characterized by decreasing temperature with height. The
top of the troposphere is called the tropopause. Above the tropopause,
the stratosphere, a region in which the temperature generally increases
with altitude, extends to the stratopause, the top of the inversion
layer, at about 50 to 55 kilometers. Above the stratosphere, the
mesosphere, a region of generally decreasing temperatures with height
extends to the mesopause, the base of an inversion layer at about 80 to
85 kilometers. The region above the mesopause, in which temperature
generally increases with height, is the thermosphere. The distribution
of various physicochemical processes is another criterion. The
ozonosphere, lying roughly between 10 and 50 kilometers, is the general
region of the upper atmosphere in which there is an appreciable ozone
concentration and in which ozone plays an important part in the
radiative balance of the atmosphere; the ionosphere, starting at about
70 or 80 kilometers, is the region in which ionization of one or more of
the atmospheric constituents is significant; the neutrosphere is the
shell below this which is, by contrast, relatively unionized; and the
chemosphere, with no very definite height limits, is the region in which
photochemical reactions take place. Dynamic and kinetic processes are a
third criterion. The exosphere is the region at the top of the
atmosphere, above the critical level of escape, in which atmospheric
particles can move in free orbits, subject only to the earth's
gravitation. Composition is a fourth criterion. The homosphere is the
shell in which there is so little photodissociation or gravitational
separation that the mean molecular weight of the atmosphere is sensibly
constant; the heterosphere is the region above this, where the
atmospheric composition and mean molecular weight are not constant. The
boundary between the two is probably at the level at which molecular
oxygen begins to be dissociated, and this occurs in the vicinity of 80
or 90 kilometers. The term mesosphere has been given another definition
which does not fit into any logical set of criteria, i.e., the shell
between the exosphere and the ionosphere. This use of mesosphere has not
been widely accepted. For further subdivisions, see ionosphere,
troposphere, geocorona.
