# Definition

The sporadic radiant emission from the upper atmosphere over middle and
high latitudes. It is believed to be due primarily to the emission from
nitrogen - atomic N I and N II, molecular, N2, and ionic N2+; atomic
oxygen (O I and O II); atomic sodium (Na I); the hydroxyl radical (OH);
and hydrogen. Compare airglow. According to various theories, auroras
seem definitely to be related to magnetic storms and the influx of
charged particles from the sun. The exact details of the nature of the
mechanisms involved are still being investigated, but release of trapped
particles from Van Allen belt apparently plays an important part. The
aurora is most intense at times of magnetic storms (when it is also
observed farthest equatorward), and shows a periodicity which is related
to the sun's 27-day rotation period and the 11-year sunspot cycle. The
distribution with height shows a pronounced maximum near 100 kilometers.
The lower limit is probably near 80 kilometers. The aurora can often be
clearly seen, and it assumes a variety of shapes and colors which are
characteristic patterns of auroral emission. The following is the
general classification and abbreviations of the forms of the auroras
adopted by the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics in 1930 for
reporting of visual observations. The classification was modified
slightly and expanded in 1963. The new classification is described in
the International Auroral Atlas , Aldine Pub. Co., Chicago, 1963. I.
Forms without ray structure: HA (abbr for homogeneous quiet area). These
can appear near the horizon, and between the arc and the horizon a dark
segment is often seen. These arcs can be narrow or broad, and are very
often diffuse along the upper border but sharp along the lower one. HB
(abbr for homogeneous bands). These forms do not have the regular shape
of the arcs; they are more rapidly moving phenomena. The lower border is
often irregular and sharp. The breadth can vary from a very narrow band
to a band which is so large that it resembles a curtain hanging down.
These bands very often turn into bands with ray structure. PA (abbr for
pulsating arcs). Parts of an arc flash up and disappear regularly within
a period of about 20 seconds. This form quite often stands isolated in
the sky without other auroras. DS (abbr for diffuse luminous surfaces).
These either appear like a diffuse veil or glow over great parts of the
heavens without distinct boundaries, often appearing after intense
displays of rays and curtains, or as more isolated feeble luminous
streaks which sometimes bear a striking resemblance to clouds. Sometimes
large areas of the heavens can be discolored by a green, violet, or red
diffuse light. PS (abbr for pulsating surfaces). Diffuse patches appear
and disappear rhythmically at the same place, retaining the same
irregular shape, When the patches are lying near the magnetic zenith the
contours can be more sharp, and form a sort of corona. These forms
appear often in connection with flaming auroras. G (abbr for feeble glow
near the horizon resembling the dawn). Of white or redlike color, this
form is often the upper part of an arc whose lower border is below the
horizon. II. Forms with ray structure: These forms consist of short or
long rays which can be arranged in different ways. RA (abbr for arcs
with ray structure). A homogeneous arc which has remained quiet and
unaltered for a rather long time may become sharp and luminous along the
lower border and they very rapidly change into an arc of rays. The rays
can be short or long. RBI (abbr for bands with ray structure). These
resemble the bands mentioned under HB but are constituted of a series of
rays which are arranged close to each other along the band, or they can
appear more scattered. Often a series of parallel bands appear. When a
band is near the magnetic zenith is may have the form of a corona. D
(abbr for draperies). If the ray become very long the band appears like
a curtain or drapery whose lower border is often more luminous. Several
parallel curtains frequently appear at the same time. Near the zenith
the curtain may have a fanlike form on account of the perspective. R
(abbr for rays). The rays can be isolated, narrow or broad, short or
long. They may appear in great segments or like masses or rays, very
often resembling curtains. C (abbr for corona). When the rays approach
the magnetic zenith they seem, on account of the perspective, to
converge to this point and form a corona. This may be formed by long
rays or by short ones, it may be completed or incomplete. A corona can
also be formed by bands, draperies, or more diffuse forms near the
magnetic zenith. III. Flaming auroras (abbr F). A characteristic,
rapidly moving form, consisting of strong waves of light which move
upwards, one after the other, in the direction of the magnetic zenith.
The waves have the form of detached arcs which move upwards normally to
the direction of the arc; they can be compared to invisible waves
illuminating broad rays and patches which appear and disappear
rhythmically when the waves pass them. The flaming aurora frequently
appears after strong displays of rays and curtains and is often followed
by the formation of a corona. For more information,about auroras, visit
Auroras: Paintings in the Sky.
