# Definition

One of a set of measures defining a point in space. If the point is know
to be on a given line, only one coordinate is needed; if on a surface,
two are required; if in space, three. Cartesian coordinates define a
point relative to two intersecting lines, called axes. If the axes are
perpendicular, the coordinates are rectangular; if not perpendicular,
they are oblique coordinates. A three-dimensional system of Cartesian
coordinates is called space coordinates. Polar coordinates define a
point by its distance and direction from a fixed point called the pole.
Direction is given as the angle between a reference radius vector and a
radius vector to the point. If three dimensions are involved, two angles
are used to locate the radius vector. Space-polar coordinates define a
point on the surface of a sphere by (1) its distance from a fixed point
at the center, the pole; (2) the colatitude or angle between the polar
axis (a reference line through the pole) and the radius vector (a
straight line connecting the pole and the point); and (3) the longitude
or angle between a reference plane through the polar axis and a plane
through the radius vector and the polar axis. Spherical coordinates
define a point on a sphere or spheroid by its angular distances from a
primary great circle and from a reference secondary great circle.
Geographical or terrestrial coordinates define a point on the surface of
the earth. Celestial coordinates define a point on the celestial sphere.
Table VI summarizes the terms used in four geocentric celestial
coordinate systems and the terrestrial (geographic) coordinate system
and indicates the analogous terms under each system.
