# Definition

The uniform measure of time defined by the laws of dynamics and
determined in principle from the orbital motions of the planets,
specifically the orbital motion of the earth as represented by Newcomb's
Tables of the Sun. Compare universal time. Beginning with the volume for
1960 the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac uses ephemeris time as
the tabular argument in the fundamental ephemerides of the sun, moon,
and planets. A gravitational ephemeris expresses the position of a
celestial body as a function of ephemeris time; and, at any instant, the
measure of ephemeris time is the value of the argument at which the
ephemeris position is the same as the actual position at the instant.
The ephemeris time at any instant is obtained from observation by
directly comparing observed position of the sun, moon, and planets with
gravitational ephemerides of their coordinates; observations of the moon
are the most effective and expeditious for this purpose. An accurate
determination, however, requires observations over a more or less
extended period; in practice, it takes the form of determining the time
correction T that must be applied to universal time (U.T.) to obtain
ephemeris time: E.T. = U.T. + TThe universal time at any instant may be
obtained with little delay from observations of the dirunal motions. The
fundamental epoch from which ephemeris time is reckoned is the epoch
that Newcomb designated as 1900 January 0, Greenwich mean noon, but
which actually is 1900 January 0 day 12 hours E.T.; the instant to which
this designation is assigned is the instant near the beginning of the
calendar year A.D. 1900 when the geometric mean longitude of the Sun
referred to the mean equinox of data was 279 degrees 41 minutes 48.04
seconds. Ephemeris time is the measure of time in which Newcomb's Tables
of the Sun agree with observation. The primary unit of ephemeris time is
the tropical year, defined by the mean motion of the sun in longitude at
the epoch 1900 January 0 day 12 hours E.T.; its length in ephemeris days
is determined by the coefficient of T in Newcomb's expression for the
geometric mean longitude of the sun L referred to the mean equinox of
date, given among the elements of the sun.
