# Definition

A statement of the conservation of energy for thermodynamic systems (not
necessarily in equilibrium). The fundamental form requires that the heat
absorbed by the system serve either to raise the internal energy of the
system or to do work on the environment: dq = du + dw where dq is the
heat added per unit mass; du is the increment of specific internal
energy; and dw is the specific work done by the system on the
environment. Although dq and dw are not perfect differentials, their
difference, du, is always a perfect differential. Example of the
application of this equation: in an adiabatic free expansion of gas into
a vacuum, all three terms are zero. For reversible processes the
mechanical work is equal to the expansion against the pressure forces,
i.e., dw = pdv where p is the pressure and v is the specific volume. For
a perfect gas, the internal energy change is proportional to the
temperature change, du = cvdT where cv is the specific heat at constant
volume and T is the Kelvin temperature. Therefore, the form of the first
law usually used in meteorological applications is dq = cvdT + pdv Use
of the equation of state yields an alternative form, dq = cpdT - dp
where cp is the specific heat at constant pressure. For open systems the
variation of total rather than specific quantities is important: dQ =
dU + pdV - hdm where Q is the total heat; U is the total internal
energy; V is the volume; m is the mass of the system; and h is the
specific enthalpy. If a system contains the possibility of nonmechanical
work, such as work done against an electric field, this work must be
included in the first law. See second law of thermodynamics, third law
of thermodynamics, energy equations.
