# Definition

A continuous range of frequencies extending between two limiting
frequencies. Specific frequency bands used in radio and radar are often
designated by names, numbers, or letters. The band designations as
decided upon by the Atlantic City Radio Convention of 1947 and later
modified by Comite Consultatif International Radio (CCIR) Recommendation
No. 142 in 1953 were: Band number Frequency range Metric subdivision
waves Atlanctic City frequency subdivision kc 4 3- 30 Myriametric
Very-low VLF 5 30- 300 Kilometric Low LF 6 300- 3,000 Hectometric Medium
MF 7 3,000- 30,000 Decametric High HF mc 8 30- 300 Metric Very-high VHF
9 300- 3,000 Decimetric Ultra-high UHF 10 3,000- 30,000 Centimetric
Super-high SHF 11 30,000- 300,000 Millimetric Extremely high EHF 12
300,000- 3,000,000 Decimillimetric – – Note that band N extends from
0.3\*10 N to 3\*10 N cycles; thus band 4 designates the frequency range
0.3\*104 to 3\*104 cycles. The upper limit is included in each band; the
lower limit is excluded. Description of bands by means of adjectives is
arbitrary and the CCIR recommend that it be discontinued. The
designation ELF, extremely low frequency, has recently been proposed for
the band extending from 3 kilocycles down to 1 cycle per second. These
frequencies have been used for years in the study of lightning and
associated phenomena and may be useful in communicating with spacecraft.
The frequency bands used by radar (radar frequency bands) were first
designated by letters for military secrecy. Those designations were:
Frequency band Approximate frequency range, gigacycles Approximate
wavelength range, centimeters P-band 0.225 to 0.39 140 to 76.9 L-band
0.39 to 1.55 76.9 to 19.3 S-band 1.55 to 5.20 19.3 to 5.77 X-band 5.20
to 10.90 5.77 to 2.75 K-band 10.90 to 36.00 2.75 to 0.834 Q-band 36.00
to 46.00 0.834 to 0.652 V-band 46.00 to 56.00 0.652 to 0.536 The C-band,
3.9 to 6.2 gigacycles, overlaps the S- and X-bands. These letter
designations have no official sanction.
