# Definition

An artificial language for describing or expressing the instructions
which can be carried out by a digital computer. In automatically
sequenced computers, the instruction code is used when describing or
expressing sequences of instructions, and each instruction word usually
contains a part specifying the operation to be performed and one or more
addresses which identify a particular location in storage. Sometimes, an
address part of an instruction is not intended to specify a location in
storage but is used for some other purpose. If more than one address is
used, the code is called a multiple-address code. In a typical
instruction of a four-address code, the addresses specify the location
of two operands, the destination of the result, and the location of the
next instruction in the sequence. In a typical three-address code, the
fourth address specifying the location of the next instruction is
dispensed with and the instructions are taken from storage in a
preassigned order. In a typical one-address or single-address code, the
address may specify either the location of an operand to be taken from
storage, the destination of a previously prepared result, or the
location of the next instruction. The arithmetic element usually
contains at least two storage locations, one of which is an accumulator.
For example, operations requiring two operands may obtain one operand
from the main storage and the other from a storage location in the
arithmetic element which is specified by the operation part.
