# Definition

Angular distance from a primary great circle or plane. See coordinate,
table. Terrestrial latitude is angular distance from the equator,
measured northward or southward through 90 degrees and labeled N or S to
indicate the direction of measurement; astronomical latitude is angular
distance between the direction of gravity and the plane of the equator;
geodetic or topographical latitude is angular distance between the plane
of the equator and a normal to the spheroid; geocentric latitude is the
angle between a line to the center of the earth and the plane of the
equator. Geodetic and sometimes astronomical latitude are also called
geographic latitude. Geodetic latitude is used for charts. Assumed
latitude is the latitude at which an observer is assumed to be located
for an observation or computation. Fictitious latitude is angular
distance from a fictitious equator. Grid latitude in angular distance
from a grid equator. Transverse or inverse latitude is angular distance
from a transverse equator. Oblique latitude is angular distance from an
oblique equator. Difference of latitude is the shorter arc of any
meridian between the paralles of two places, expressed in angular
measure. Magnetic latitude, magnetic inclination, or magnetic dip is
angular distance between the horizontal and the direction of a line of
force of the earth's magnetic field at any point. Geomagnetic latitude
is angular distance from geomagnetic equator. A parallel of latitude is
a circle (or approximation of a circle) of the earth, parallel to the
equator, and connecting points of equal latitude; or a circle of the
celestial sphere, parallel to the ecliptic. Celestial latitude is
angular distance north or south of the ecliptic. Galactic latitude is
angular distance North or south of the galactic equator. See variation
of latitude.
