# Definition

A north-south reference line, particularly a great circle through the
geographical poles of the earth. The term usually refers to the upper
branch, that half, from pole to pole, which passes through a given
place, the other half being called the lower branch. See coordinate,
table. A terrestrial meridian is a meridian of the earth. Sometimes
designated true meridian to distinguish it from magnetic meridian,
compass meridian, or grid meridian, the north-south lines relative to
magnetic, compass, or grid direction, respectively. An astronomical
meridian is a line connecting points having the same astronomical
longitude. A geodetic meridian is a line connecting points of equal
geodetic longitude. Geodetic and sometimes astronomical meridians are
also called geographic meridians. Geodetic meridians are shown on
charts. The prime meridian passes through longitude 0ï¿½. A fictitious
meridian is one of a series of great circles or lines used in place of a
meridian for certain purposes. A transverse or inverse meridian is a
great circle perpendicular to a transverse equator. An oblique meridian
is a great circle perpendicular to an oblique equator. Any meridian used
as a reference for reckoning time is called a time meridian. The
meridian through any particular place or observer, serving as the
reference for local time, is called local meridian, in contrast with the
Greenwich meridian, the reference for Greenwich time. A celestial
sphere, through the celestial poles and the zenith.
