# Definition

The acceleration experienced by a human or an animal test subject in an
accelerating vehicle. See table XI. Several different terminologies have
been used to describe physiological acceleration. Since the terminology
may be based either on the action of the accelerating vehicle or the
reaction of the passenger, the terms used are often confusing to a
reader without prior knowledge of the system of terminology used.
Probably the most easily understood system is the eyeballs in, eyeballs
out, eyeballs down, eyeballs up, etc., terminology used by test pilots,
which refers to the sensations experienced by the person being
accelerated. Thus, the acceleration experienced in an aircraft pullout
or inside loop is eyeballs down. Note that, in the NASA vehicle (center
of gravity displacement) terminology, this is -az acceleration. Some
physiological-acceleration terminologies designate accelerations in
terms of the equivalent displacement acceleration of the subject as if
he were starting from rest. In such terminologies a man standing up or
sitting down on the surface of the earth is experiencing 1 g of headward
acceleration because of gravity. Other descriptive terms used in this
way are footward, forward (the acceleration experienced by a man pressed
into the seat back by an accelerating vehicle), rearward, leftward,
rightward, spineward, sternumward, and tailward. One terminology based
on reaction uses the terms head-to-foot (the acceleration generated by a
pullout in an aircraft), chest-to-back, foot-to-head, and back-to-chest.
