# Definition

The process whereby a surface of discontinuity turns back a portion of
the incident radiation into the medium through which the radiation
approached. See albedo, reflectivity, radar reflectivity. For true
reflection to occur there must be a real discontinuity of the index of
refraction or at least it must change over an interfacial layer of
thickness small compared to the wavelength of the radiation. If the
change of refractive index is gradual (as may occur in a stratified
medium) radiation may be returned by a process of continuous refraction,
not to be confused with reflection. In radar, the term reflection is
often applied to the return of radio energy from a volume of
precipitation or cloud particles, where scattering is the important
process. When the scale of the irregularities on the reflecting surface
is small compared to the wavelength, regular or specular reflection
(also called mirror reflection, regual reflection) results; if the
irregularities are large compare of reflection is not affected by
wavelength except as the relative scale of the irregularities of the
surface change with wavelength. the fraction of the incident radiation
reflected does depend on wavelength because of the selective nature of
the absorptivity and transmissivity. The idealized white body is a total
reflector; a black body reflects none of the incident radiation. The
laws of specular reflection are: (first law) the reflected ray lies in
the same plane as the incident ray and the normal to the surface at the
point of incidence; and (second law) the angle of reflection equals the
angle of incidence, both measured from the normal to the surface.
