# Definition

"See The unit of time, the second, was defined originally as the
fraction 1/86 400 of the mean solar day. The exact definition of the
""mean solar day"" was left to astronomers, but their measurements have
shown that on account of irregularities in the rotation of the Earth,
the mean solar day does not guarantee the desired accuracy. In order to
define the unit of time more precisely, the 11th CGPM (1960) adopted a
definition given by the International Astronomical Union which was based
on the tropical year \[see ephemeris second\]. Experimental work had,
however, already shown that an atomic standard of time-interval, based
on a transition between two energy levels of an atom or a molecule,
could be realized and reproduced much more accurately. Considering that
a very precise definition of the unit of time of the International
System, the second, is indispensable for the needs of advanced
metrology, the 13th CGPM (1967) decided to replaced the definition of
the second by the following: The second is the duration of 9 192 631 770
periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two
hyperfine levels of the ground state of the cesium-133 atom (13th CGPM
(1967), Resolution 1). The previous is an excerpt (with the exception of
the reference to ""ephemeris second"") from WWW version of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology: Physics Laboratory's
International System of Units (SI)"
