# Definition

(abbr SID). A complex combination of sudden changes in the condition of
the ionosphere and the effects of these changes. The following are the
most important effects accompanying a sudden ionospheric disturbance:
(a) radio fadeout, a condition in which there is a marked and abrupt
increase in absorption in the D-region for high frequency radio waves (2
to 3 megacycles) and a consequent loss of long-distance radio reception
in this range of frequencies; (b) magnetic crotchet, a sudden change in
the earth's magnetic field due to an increase in the conductivity of the
lower ionosphere, the change being in the nature of an augmentation of
the normal quiet-day magnetic change; (c) sudden enhancements of
long-wave atmospherics recorded in the frequency range between 10 and
100 kilocycles due to the improved reflectivity at oblique incidence of
the D-region for such low-frequency radio waves; (d) sudden phase
anomalies of discrete low-frequency radio waves (10 to 100 kilocycles)
due to descent of the D-layer; and (e) sudden field-strength anomalies
of distant low-frequency radio signals (10 to 100 kilocycles) due to
interference between the groundwave and the skywave. A sudden
ionospheric disturbance usually occurs a few minutes after a solar flare
and is noted only on the sunlit side of the earth. The return of the
ionosphere to its normal condition following a pronounced sudden
ionospheric disturbance usually takes from half an hour to an hour,
sometimes longer.
