# Definition

An instrument for measuring pressure below atmospheric pressure. Some of
the more common types of vacuum gages listed in order of descending
pressure range of use are: (a) Manometer, usually consists of a column
of liquid supported by the pressure to be measured, the determination of
which is a matter of measuring the column height. (b) Thermal
conductivity gage, consisting of a heated surface. The heat transported
by the gas molecules from the surface is related to gas pressure. The
heat transfer is reflected in changes in surface temperature (or in the
heating power required to maintain constant temperature). Various types
of thermal conductivity gages are distinguished according to the method
of indicating the surface temperature. The most common types are Pirani
gage and thermocouple gage. (c) Knudsen gage, which measures pressure in
terms of the net rate of transfer of momentum by molecules between two
surface maintained at different temperatures and separated by a distance
smaller than the mean free path of the gas molecule. Also called
radiometer vacuum gage. (d) McLeod gage, in which a known volume of gas,
at the pressure to be measured, is compressed by the movement of a
liquid column to a much smaller known volume, at which the resulting
higher pressure is measured. (e) Ionization gage, comprising a means of
ionizing the gas molecules and a means of correlating the number and
type of ions produced with the pressure of the gas. Various types of
ionization gages are distinguished according to the method of producing
the ionization. The common types are hot-cathode ionization gage,
cold-cathode ionization gage, radioactive ionization gage.
